(not done)

## Nano - Command Line Text Editor

``` $ nano hello.txt```

> 1. $ nano [filename]
> 2. type text into the editor
> 3. Select the appropriate out

nano is a command line text editor. It works the same way as a desktop text editor like TextEdit or Notepad, except that it is accessible from the command line and only accepts keyboard input.

> 1. The command nano hello.txt opens a new text file named hello.txt in the nano text editor.
> 2. "Hello, I am nano" is a text string entered in nano at the line indicated by the cursor.
> 3. The menu of keyboard commands at the bottom of the window allow us to save changes to hello.txt and exit nano. The ^ stands for the Ctrl key.
> 4. Common Commands (__command are not case sensitive__)
>    - Ctr; + O  saves the file
>    - Ctrl + X  exits the file
>    - Ctrl + G  opens a help menu

## Bash

A bash profile is a file used to store environment settings for your terminal. On most computer systems, the file is in the home directory and is accessible by the name .bash_profile.

> - When a session starts, it loads the contents of the bash profile before executing commands.
>   - The . indicates a hidden file.
>   - The name .bash_profile is important since this is how the command line recognizes the bash profile.

> To open and edit the bash profile: ```nano .bash_profile```
> When you edit the bash profile, you can add commands to execute every time a new terminal session is started.
> For example, if you have an echo statement in the bash profile, that will echo when a terminal session begins.

## Aliases


## Git & Github
- git workflow
- git operations
- into to github
- markdown









