# BASH

## What is Bash

- Bash, or the Bourne-Again SHell, is a CLI that was created in 1989 by Brian Fox as a free software replacement for the Bourne Shell.
  - CLI: A command-line interface (CLI) is a text-based user interface (UI) used to run programs, manage computer files and interact with the computer.
 
- A shell is a specific kind of CLI.
- Bash is “open source,” which means that anyone can read the code and suggest changes.
  
- Since its beginning, it has been supported by a large community of engineers who have worked to make it an incredible tool.
- Bash is the default shell for Linux and Mac up through macOS 10.14 (Mojave). For these reasons, Bash is the most used and widely distributed shell.

[Bash Unix Shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_(Unix_shell))

## Bash Setup for Mac and Windows

### Mac

- As mentioned before, Bash is the default shell on Linux and MacOS up through version 10.14 (Mojave)
- So good news, you don’t have to install anything! MacOS version 10.15 (Catalina) and higher uses a similar, but slightly different default shell called Z shell or Zsh. 
- In most ways Zsh is an exact replacement for Bash, so there is no need to switch over or install Bash instead.

To access Bash in MacOS, you can use an application called Terminal.

1. First open the Applications folder, then open the Utilities folder.

2. Once you’re in the Utilities folder you will see the application Terminal. Open the Terminal application and you’re ready to go!

3. For ease of access later, you can keep the Terminal in your Dock. Simply right-click (alt-click) the Terminal icon in your dock, then select “Options”, then “Keep In Dock.”


### Windows

- To use Bash on a Windows computer, you will need to download and install a program called Git Bash. 
- Git Bash allows us to easily access Bash as well as another tool we’ll be using later called Git, inside the Windows environment.

#### How to install Git Bash

[![Set Up Git Bash
](https://markdown-videos.vercel.app/youtube/sQY0g7s2hac)](https://youtu.be/sQY0g7s2hac)



  
