# Redirection

Through redirection, you can direct the input and output of a command to and from other files and programs, and chain commands together in a pipeline.

> 1. __standard input__, abbreviated as stdin, is information inputted into the terminal through the keyboard or input device.
> 2. __standard output__, abbreviated as stdout, is the information outputted after a process is run.
> 3. __standard error__, abbreviated as stderr, is an error message outputted by a failed process.


## >

```$ echo "Hello" > hello.txt```

The > command redirects the standard output to a file. 
- "Hello" is entered as the standard input, and is then redirected to the file hello.txt by > .

> ```$ cat deserts.txt > forests.txt```
> - ">" takes the standard output of the command on the left, and redirects it to the file on the right.
> - The standard output of cat deserts.txt is redirected to forests.txt.
> NOTE !!!!! -  that > overwrites all original content in forests.txt. When you view the output data by using cat on forests.txt, you will see only the contents of deserts.txt.


## >>

To add to a file without losing the original text, use the >> command!

> - ">>" takes the standard output of the command on the left and appends (adds) it to the file on the right.
> - ">>" takes the standard output of the command on the left and appends (adds) it to the file on the right.
> - ```$ cat deserts.txt >> forests.txt```
> - The output data of forests.txt will contain the original contents of forests.txt with the content of deserts.txt appended to it.


## <

```$ cat < deserts.txt```
"<" takes the standard input from the file on the right and inputs it into the command on the left.

> Here, deserts.txt is the standard input for the cat command. The standard output appears in the terminal.
> While this above example accomplishes the same thing as cat deserts.txt (without the redirect), it is important to know that input can be redirected.

## |

"|" is a “pipe.” The | takes the standard output of the command on the left, and pipes it as standard input to the command on the right.

> To count the words in volcanoes.txt using the word count command wc: ```$ cat volcanoes.txt | wc```
> Above, the output of cat volcanoes.txt becomes the standard input of wc. In turn, the wc command outputs the number of lines, words, and characters in volcanoes.txt, respectively.

> ```$ cat volcanoes.txt | wc | cat > count.txt```
> Multiple |s can be chained together. Above the standard output of cat volcanoes.txt is “piped” to the wc command. The standard output of wc is then “piped” to cat. Finally, the standard output of cat is redirected to count.txt.


## sort

```$ sort continents.txt```
"sort" takes the standard input and orders it alphabetically for the standard output (it doesn’t change the file itself). In the above, the continents in continents.txt will be listed in alphabetical order:

```
Africa
Antarctica
Asia
Australia
Europe
North America
South America
```

```$ cat glaciers.txt | sort > sorted-glaciers.txt```

> The command takes the standard output from ```cat glaciers.txt``` and “pipes” it to sort.
> The standard output of sort is redirected to a new file named sorted-glaciers.txt.


## uniq

uniq stands for “unique.” It filters out adjacent, duplicate lines in a file.

```$ sort deserts.txt | uniq```

> A more effective way to use uniq is to call sort to alphabetize a file, and “pipe” the standard output to uniq. By piping sort deserts.txt to uniq, all duplicate lines are alphabetized (and thereby made adjacent) and filtered out.

```sort deserts.txt | uniq > uniq-deserts.txt```
> Here we simply send filtered contents to uniq-deserts.txt, which you can view with the cat command.


### grep 

grep stands for “global regular expression print.” It searches files for lines that match a pattern and then returns the results. It is also case-sensitive. 

```$ grep America continents.txt```

Above, grep searched for anything that matched “America” in continents.txt.

grep -i enables the command to be case insensitive. 

```$ grep -i America continents.txt```

grep searched for capital or lowercase strings that match “America” in continents.txt. Note that we don’t use quotes in the command.

grep -R searches all files in a directory and outputs filenames and lines containing matched results. 

```$ grep -R Arctic /home/ccuser/workspace/geography```

> - "-R" stands for “recursive”.
> - Above, grep -R searched the /home/ccuser/workspace/geography directory for the string “Arctic” and outputted filenames and lines with matching results.

```$ grep -Rl Arctic /home/ccuser/workspace/geography```

> - grep -Rl searches all files in a directory and outputs only filenames with matched results (so no lines).
> - l (a lowercase L, not a capital i) stands for “files with matches.”
> - Here grep -Rl searched the /home/ccuser/workspace/geography directory for the string “Arctic” and outputs filenames with matched results.


## sed

sed stands for “stream editor.” It accepts standard input and modifies it based on an expression, before displaying it as output data. It is similar to “find and replace.”

> ```'s/snow/rain/'```
> - s: stands for “substitution.” It is always used when using sed for substitution.
> - snow: the search string, or the text to find.
> - rain: the replacement string, or the text to add in place.

> ```sed 's/snow/rain/' forests.txt```
> In this case, sed searches forests.txt for the word “snow” and replaces it with “rain.” __Importantly, the above command will only replace the first instance of “snow” on a line.__

> ```sed 's/snow/rain/g' forests.txt```
> The above command uses the g expression, meaning “global.” Here sed searches forests.txt for the word “snow” and replaces it with “rain” globally. This means all instances of “snow” on a line will be turned to “rain.”


It will only rewrite the command line output and the actual file won’t be changed. In order to rewrite the actual file, we need to use -i at the beginning of the command:

```sed -i 's/snow/rain/g' forests.txt```

The above command will rewrite forests.txt and replace all instances (since we’re also using g) of “snow” with “rain”. __Important: This is a permanent replacement__









































